6c Binary analysis: Added Angr for iOS (#1521)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x04c-Tampering-and-Reverse-Engineering.md

As always in hacking, the anything-goes rule applies: simply use whatever is most efficient. Every binary is different, and all reverse engineers have their own style. Often, the best way to achieve your goal is to combine approaches (such as emulator-based tracing and symbolic execution). To get started, pick a good disassembler and/or reverse engineering framework, then get comfortable with their particular features and extension APIs. Ultimately, the best way to get better is to get hands-on experience.

> 

Reviewer: Hi @su-vikas, thank you very much for this PR again! I see quiet a few markdown linting errors being added over time. These can cause issues when we generate the various formats of the MSTG when we release it. Issues that often happen:
- spaces just before a newline
- extra newlines (such as these)

I love the content that you write, which is why I wonder: can you help us out by using a tool like visual studio code with markdown linting (see step 7 in https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-set-up-your-contributor-environment) . Or run `./tools/Apply_Linter_Check.sh` and fix its feedback?

Author: Noted. Will run linter from now on.

Reviewer: Thanks!

In the late 2000s, testing based on symbolic execution has become a popular way to identify security vulnerabilities. Symbolic "execution" actually refers to the process of representing possible paths through a program as formulas in first-order logic. Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) solvers are used to check the satisfiability of these formulas and provide solutions, including concrete values of the variables needed to reach a certain point of execution on the path corresponding to the solved formula.

> In simple words, symbolic execution is mathematically analyzing a program without executing it. During analysis, each unknown input is represented as a mathematical variable (a symbolic value), and all the operations hence performed on these unknowns is recorded in a form of mathematical equations. These mathematical equations are called `constraints`. In the end of this analysis, a final mathematical equation is obtained, in which the variables are the inputs whose values are not known. SMT solvers are special programs which solve these equations to give possible values for these variables. To visualise this, lets use a function which takes one input and multiplies it by 279 and then subtracts the output by 30. The  mathematical equation for this operation on input will be `(x * 279 - 30)`, where `x` is the variable representing the input to the function. If the value to be multiplied is another input to this function, the equation will become `(x * y - 30)`, where `y` being the another input introduced. We can see the equation is more complex than before. Moving forward, instead of subtracting a constant 30, a value from a global variable is used. This adds another variable to the equation, and makes it `(x * y - z)`. As is the case for global variables, their value can be changed from outside this function, which may lead to different outputs whenever this function is executed. This adds to additional complexity in determining correct solution. Finally, there is an _if_ condition which checks if the value calculated is greater than 1000, and returns _success_ if true, else returns _fail_. If we want the function to always return _success_, then we require a solution for the equation `(x * y - z) > 1000`. This equation can be given as input to a SMT solver to get values for x, y and z which satisfies the equation. Internally SMT solvers use various equation solving techniques to generate solution for such equations. Some of the techniques are very advance and there discussion is beyond the scope of this book.

Reviewer 2: I've made the example a bit more simple to be able to explain the same using less words. What do you think? Also I changes global by external variable to justify the possibility of having to perform dynamic analysis to obtain its value on runtime (as stated some paragraphs below). 

```suggestion
In simple words, symbolic execution is mathematically analyzing a program without executing it. During analysis, each unknown input is represented as a mathematical variable (a symbolic value), and hence all the operations performed on these variables are recorded as a tree of operations (aka. AST (abstract syntax tree), from compiler theory). These ASTs can be translated into so-called _constraints_ that will be interpreted by a SMT solver. In the end of this analysis, a final mathematical equation is obtained, in which the variables are the inputs whose values are not known. SMT solvers are special programs which solve these equations to give possible values for the input variables given a final state.

To illustrate this, imagine a function which takes one input (`x`) and multiplies it by the value of a second input (`y`). Finally, there is an _if_ condition which checks if the value calculated is greater than the value of an external variable(`z`), and returns "success" if true, else returns "fail". The equation for this operation will be `(x * y) > z`.

If we want the function to always return "success" (final state), we can tell the SMT solver to calculate the values for `x` and `y` (input variables) which satisfy the corresponding equation. As is the case for global variables, their value can be changed from outside this function, which may lead to different outputs whenever this function is executed. This adds to additional complexity in determining correct solution.

Internally SMT solvers use various equation solving techniques to generate solution for such equations. Some of the techniques are very advanced and their discussion is beyond the scope of this book.
```

In a real world situation, the functions are much more complex than the above example. The increased complexity of the functions can pose significant challenges for classical symbolic execution. Some of the challenges are summarised below:

- Loops and recursions in a program may lead to *infinite execution tree*.
- Multiple conditional branches or nested conditions may lead to *path explosion*.
- Complex equations generated by symbolic execution may not be solvable by SMT solvers because of their limitations.
- Program is using system calls, library calls or network events which cannot be handled by symbolic execution.

To overcome these challenges, typically, symbolic execution is combined with other techniques such as _dynamic execution_ (also called _concrete execution_) to mitigate the path explosion problem specific to classical symbolic execution. This combination of concrete (actual) and symbolic execution is referred to as _concolic execution_ (the name concolic stems from **conc**rete and symb**olic**), sometimes also called as *dynamic symbolic execution*.

> To visualize this, in the above example, we can obtain the value of the global variable by dynamically executing the program and feeding this information into our symbolic execution analysis. This extra information will reduce the complexity of our equations and may produce more accurate analysis results. Together with improved SMT solvers and current hardware speeds, concolic execution allows to explore paths in medium-size software modules (i.e., on the order of 10 KLOC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize this, in the above example, we can obtain the value of the external variable by performing further reverse engineering or by dynamically executing the program and feeding this information into our symbolic execution analysis. This extra information will reduce the complexity of our equations and may produce more accurate analysis results. Together with improved SMT solvers and current hardware speeds, concolic execution allows to explore paths in medium-size software modules (i.e., on the order of 10 KLOC).
```

In the late 2000s, testing based on symbolic execution has become a popular way to identify security vulnerabilities. Symbolic "execution" actually refers to the process of representing possible paths through a program as formulas in first-order logic. Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) solvers are used to check the satisfiability of these formulas and provide solutions, including concrete values of the variables needed to reach a certain point of execution on the path corresponding to the solved formula.

> In simple words, symbolic execution is mathematically analyzing a program without executing it. During analysis, each unknown input is represented as a mathematical variable (a symbolic value), and all the operations hence performed on these unknowns is recorded in a form of mathematical equations. These mathematical equations are called `constraints`. In the end of this analysis, a final mathematical equation is obtained, in which the variables are the inputs whose values are not known. SMT solvers are special programs which solve these equations to give possible values for these variables. To visualise this, lets use a function which takes one input and multiplies it by 279 and then subtracts the output by 30. The  mathematical equation for this operation on input will be `(x * 279 - 30)`, where `x` is the variable representing the input to the function. If the value to be multiplied is another input to this function, the equation will become `(x * y - 30)`, where `y` being the another input introduced. We can see the equation is more complex than before. Moving forward, instead of subtracting a constant 30, a value from a global variable is used. This adds another variable to the equation, and makes it `(x * y - z)`. As is the case for global variables, their value can be changed from outside this function, which may lead to different outputs whenever this function is executed. This adds to additional complexity in determining correct solution.

Reviewer 3: >In simple words, 

I would just omit this. These words aren't very simple, and this doesn't really add anything.

> Symbolic execution explores the execution tree on a systematic manner

This should be "in a systematic manner", and it could use a comma at the end.

> In simple words, symbolic execution is mathematically analyzing a program without executing it. During analysis, each unknown input is represented as a mathematical variable (a symbolic value), and all the operations hence performed on these unknowns is recorded in a form of mathematical equations. These mathematical equations are called `constraints`. In the end of this analysis, a final mathematical equation is obtained, in which the variables are the inputs whose values are not known. SMT solvers are special programs which solve these equations to give possible values for these variables. To visualise this, lets use a function which takes one input and multiplies it by 279 and then subtracts the output by 30. The  mathematical equation for this operation on input will be `(x * 279 - 30)`, where `x` is the variable representing the input to the function. If the value to be multiplied is another input to this function, the equation will become `(x * y - 30)`, where `y` being the another input introduced. We can see the equation is more complex than before. Moving forward, instead of subtracting a constant 30, a value from a global variable is used. This adds another variable to the equation, and makes it `(x * y - z)`. As is the case for global variables, their value can be changed from outside this function, which may lead to different outputs whenever this function is executed. This adds to additional complexity in determining correct solution.

Author: @cpholguera My original intention was to keep it absolutely simple. This content is good too, gives enough details on underlying working. And do agree with @Sjord, to remove "in simple words" :)

> In simple words, symbolic execution is mathematically analyzing a program without executing it. During analysis, each unknown input is represented as a mathematical variable (a symbolic value), and all the operations hence performed on these unknowns is recorded in a form of mathematical equations. These mathematical equations are called `constraints`. In the end of this analysis, a final mathematical equation is obtained, in which the variables are the inputs whose values are not known. SMT solvers are special programs which solve these equations to give possible values for these variables. To visualise this, lets use a function which takes one input and multiplies it by 279 and then subtracts the output by 30. The  mathematical equation for this operation on input will be `(x * 279 - 30)`, where `x` is the variable representing the input to the function. If the value to be multiplied is another input to this function, the equation will become `(x * y - 30)`, where `y` being the another input introduced. We can see the equation is more complex than before. Moving forward, instead of subtracting a constant 30, a value from a global variable is used. This adds another variable to the equation, and makes it `(x * y - z)`. As is the case for global variables, their value can be changed from outside this function, which may lead to different outputs whenever this function is executed. This adds to additional complexity in determining correct solution.

Reviewer 2: I agree with that. I've updated the suggestion. Thank you both.

> 

Author: Okayz. I will extend the example and talk about solvers.

> 

Author: sure. I will add it.

In a real world situation, the functions are much more complex than the above example. The increased complexity of the functions can pose significant challenges for symbolic execution. Some of the challenges are summarised below: 

- Loops and recursions in a program may lead to *infinite execution tree*
- Multiple conditional branches or nested conditions may lead to *path explosion*
- Complex equations generated post symbolic execution may not be solvable by SMT solvers because of their limitations
- Program is using system calls, library calls or network events which cannot be handled by symbolic execution

> To overcome these challenges, typically, symbolic execution is combined with other techniques such as dynamic execution (also called concrete execution) to mitigate the path explosion problem specific to classical symbolic execution. This combination of concrete (actual) and symbolic execution is referred to as *concolic execution* (the name concolic stems from *conc*rete and symb*olic*), sometimes also called as *dynamic symbolic execution*. To visualize this, in the above example, we can obtain the value of the global variable by dynamically executing the program and feeding this information into our symbolic execution analysis. This extra information will reduce the complexity of our equations and may produce more accurate analysis results. Together with improved SMT solvers and current hardware speeds, concolic execution allows to explore paths in medium-size software modules (i.e., on the order of 10s KLOC). However, it also comes in handy for supporting de-obfuscation tasks, such as simplifying control flow graphs. For example, Jonathan Salwan and Romain Thomas have [shown how to reverse engineer VM-based software protections using Dynamic Symbolic Execution](https://triton.quarkslab.com/files/csaw2016-sos-rthomas-jsalwan.pdf "Jonathan Salwan and Romain Thomas: How Triton can help to reverse virtual machine based software protections") (i.e., using a mix of actual execution traces, simulation, and symbolic execution).

Reviewer: Great piece of writing! Did you have other resources in here which we could use in the reference section? And can you add https://triton.quarkslab.com/files/csaw2016-sos-rthomas-jsalwan.pdf to the reference section as well please?

Author: I do know about few more resources, but reluctant to add them as I haven't used them. meanwhile, I will add triton.

### References

- [#vadla] Ole André Vadla Ravnås, [Anatomy of a code tracer](https://medium.com/@oleavr/anatomy-of-a-code-tracer-b081aadb0df8 "Anatomy of a code tracer")

#### OWASP Mobile Top 10 2016

- [M9 - Reverse Engineering](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Mobile_Top_10_2016-M9-Reverse_Engineering "M9 - Reverse Engineering")

#### Tools

- [Angr](https://github.com/angr/angr "Angr")
- [Cycript](http://www.cycript.org/ "Cycript")
- [Frida](https://www.frida.re/ "Frida")
- [Frida CLI](https://www.frida.re/docs/frida-cli/ "Frida CLI")
- [frida-ls-devices](https://www.frida.re/docs/frida-ls-devices/ "frida-ls-devices")
- [frida-ps](https://www.frida.re/docs/frida-ps/ "frida-ps")
- [frida-trace](https://www.frida.re/docs/frida-trace/ "frida-trace")
- [Fridump](https://github.com/Nightbringer21/fridump "Fridump")
- [Objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection "Objection")
- [Passionfruit](https://github.com/chaitin/passionfruit "Passionfruit")
- [r2frida](https://github.com/nowsecure/r2frida "r2frida")
- [Radare2](https://github.com/radare/radare2 "Radare2")
- [Substrate](http://www.cydiasubstrate.com/ "Substrate")

> - [Xposed](https://www.xda-developers.com/xposed-framework-hub/ "Xposed")

Reviewer: @cpholguera / @su-vikas / @TheDauntless : this will be harder to follow when you read the book. What if all tools would be formatted as: `[Toolname - url](URL, "toolname")`?

Author: I agree with your point on readability, but not sure on how to fix it.

Reviewer 4: Good thinking!

@su-vikas  You can do this by adding the URL inside the first part:

```
[Substrate - http://www.cydiasubstrate.com/](http://www.cydiasubstrate.com/ "Substrate")
```
That way you can see the URL in the book, and click it online.

Reviewer 2: @commjoen @TheDauntless we've agreed some time ago on a format for the references links. That is `- name - <url>`, which is also printable book friendly. e.g.:

`- adb - <https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb>`

It took us long to implement overall in the guide so that it is consistent. We should avoid changing this format once more as it is already what we wanted :)

@su-vikas the fix here would be to revert those changes on the references and apply the same style to your added references. Thank you very much!

Author: I have reverted the changes.
